Updated Messaging page (#7343)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/messaging/index.md

title: "Message passing"
seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions Message passing"
date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2023-09-22
description: How to pass messages between extensions and content scripts.
---

Because content scripts run in the context of a web page, not the extension that runs them,
they often need ways to communicate with the rest of the extension. For example, an RSS
reader extension might use content scripts to detect the presence of an RSS feed on a page,

> then notify the background page to display a page action icon for that page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then notify the service worker to display an action icon for that page.
```
MV3 compatible

the [runtime.onConnect][runtime-on-connect] event once for each frame in the tab. Similarly, if
[runtime.connect()][runtime-connect] is called, then the onConnect event can fire  once for every
frame in the extension process.

You might want to find out when a connection is closed, for example if you're maintaining separate
states for each open port. For this listen to the [runtime.Port.onDisconnect][runtime-on-disconnect] event. This
event fires when there are no valid ports at the other end of the channel, which can have any of the following causes:

- There are no listeners for [runtime.onConnect][runtime-on-connect] at the other end.
- The tab containing the port is unloaded (for example, if the tab is navigated).
- The frame where `connect()` was called has unloaded.
- All frames that received the port (via [runtime.onConnect][runtime-on-connect]) have unloaded.
- [runtime.Port.disconnect()][runtime-port-disconnect] is called by _the other end_.
  - If a `connect()` call results in multiple ports at the receiver's end, and `disconnect()`
    is called on any of these ports, then the `onDisconnect` event only fires at the sending port,

>     not at the other ports.

Author: I find nested bullets makes it harder for information to get lost. The second statement is a special case of the first, so it's not really part of the first statement.

>     not at the other ports.

Reviewer 2: As it was, it already draws attention to itself by being the only bullet point with multiple lines. You generally only need one way of standing out. It's insurance against visual clutter. Please move it back.

This exposes the messaging API to any page that matches the URL patterns you specify. The URL
pattern must contain at least a [second-level domain][wiki-second-level]; that is, hostname patterns such as "\*",

> "\*.com", "\*.co.uk", and "\*.appspot.com" are prohibited. <!--Find a way to say this positively. Listing things to not do confuses readers.--> From the web page, use the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"\*.com", "\*.co.uk", and "\*.appspot.com" are not supported.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this is the best we can do.

### Content scripts are less trustworthy {: #content-scripts-are-less-trustworthy }

[Content scripts are less trustworthy][security-cs] than the extension service worker.
For example, a malicious webpage might be able to compromise the rendering process that
runs the content scripts. Assume that messages from a content script might have been
crafted by an attacker and make sure to [validate and sanitize all input][security-santize].
Assume any data sent to the content script might leak to the web page.
Limit the scope of privileged actions that can be triggered by messages received from content
scripts.

### Cross-site scripting {: #cross-site-scripting }

When receiving a message from a content script or another extension, make sure to protect
your scripts against [cross-site scripting][wiki-cross-site]. This advice applies to scripts running inside the

> extension background page as well as to content scripts running in other web origins. Use APIs that don't run

Reviewer 2: @oliverdunk I don't know much about XSS attacks. Is this still true when we change 'background page' to 'service worker'?

> extension background page as well as to content scripts running in other web origins. Use APIs that don't run

Reviewer 3: Not really. Potential new wording:

> Make sure to protect your scripts against [cross-site scripting][wiki-cross-site]. When receiving data from an untrusted source such as user input, other websites through a content script, or an API, take care to avoid interpreting this as HTML or using it in a way which could allow unexpected code to run.

> extension background page as well as to content scripts running in other web origins. Use APIs that don't run

Author: Sounds good to me.

> extension background page as well as to content scripts running in other web origins. Use APIs that don't run

Reviewer 2: The wording looks good, but should user scripts be in the list?

scripts whenever possible:

> {% Label %}content-script.js or service-worker.js{% endLabel %}

Reviewer: @wizardofdocs can you remove `content-script.js` from labels of code samples that include `chrome.tabs.sendMessage()`. This can only be used by the service worker or scripts in extension pages (HTML pages that are part of the extension)
```suggestion
{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}
```

Author: Fixed. Thanks!

```js
chrome.tabs.sendMessage(tab.id, {greeting: "hello"}, function(response) {
  // JSON.parse doesn't evaluate the attacker's scripts.

>   var resp = JSON.parse(response.farewell);

Reviewer 2: Please restore the old one. It was showing what not to do. [Use this widget](https://web.dev/handbook/web-dev-components/#compare-with-custom-labels) to label it as not good.

Reviewer 2: @oliverdunk, can you please look over the script changes here.

Reviewer 2: Did these get rearranged?

Author: I'm at least going to put the don't one after the do one, to reduce user confusion as much as possible. Readers often take the first example they find regardless of what flags we put on it.

Reviewer 3: This looks ok to me.

{% Compare 'better', 'Safer methods' %}
Use APIs that don't run scripts whenever possible:

{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}

```js
chrome.tabs.sendMessage(tab.id, {greeting: "hello"}, function(response) {
  // JSON.parse doesn't evaluate the attacker's scripts.
  var resp = JSON.parse(response.farewell);
});
```

{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}

```js
chrome.tabs.sendMessage(tab.id, {greeting: "hello"}, function(response) {
  // innerText does not let the attacker inject HTML elements.
  document.getElementById("resp").innerText = response.farewell;
});
```
{% endCompare %}

{% Compare 'worse', 'Unsafe methods' %}
Avoid using the following methods that make your extension vulnerable:

{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}

```js
chrome.tabs.sendMessage(tab.id, {greeting: "hello"}, function(response) {
  // WARNING! Might be evaluating a malicious script!

>   var resp = eval("(" + response.farewell + ")");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  var resp = eval(`(${response.farewell})`);
```

### Content scripts are less trustworthy {: #content-scripts-are-less-trustworthy }

[Content scripts are less trustworthy][security-cs] than the extension service worker.
For example, a malicious webpage might be able to compromise the rendering process that
runs the content scripts. Assume that messages from a content script might have been
crafted by an attacker and make sure to [validate and sanitize all input][security-santize].
Assume any data sent to the content script might leak to the web page.
Limit the scope of privileged actions that can be triggered by messages received from content
scripts.

### Cross-site scripting {: #cross-site-scripting }

When receiving a message from a content script or another extension, make sure to protect
your scripts against [cross-site scripting][wiki-cross-site]. This advice applies to scripts running inside the

> extension background page as well as to content scripts running in other web origins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extension service worker as well as content scripts running in other web origins.
```
We need to update the unsafe examples, because MV3 no longer support background pages

{% Compare 'better', 'Safer methods' %}
Use APIs that don't run scripts whenever possible:

{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}

```js
chrome.tabs.sendMessage(tab.id, {greeting: "hello"}, function(response) {
  // JSON.parse doesn't evaluate the attacker's scripts.
  var resp = JSON.parse(response.farewell);
});
```

{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}

```js
chrome.tabs.sendMessage(tab.id, {greeting: "hello"}, function(response) {
  // innerText does not let the attacker inject HTML elements.
  document.getElementById("resp").innerText = response.farewell;
});
```
{% endCompare %}

{% Compare 'worse', 'Unsafe methods' %}
Avoid using the following methods that make your extension vulnerable:

{% Label %}service-worker.js{% endLabel %}

```js
chrome.tabs.sendMessage(tab.id, {greeting: "hello"}, function(response) {
  // WARNING! Might be evaluating a malicious script!

>   var resp = eval("(" + response.farewell + ")");

Reviewer: @oliverdunk Should we update the "unsafe" code samples, since MV3 doesn't allow eval() or access to the dom?

Reviewer 3: I considered this, but I'm not sure of a better example and even if it isn't allowed people still write it, so I'm not too concerned.

Reviewer 3: This is specifically an example of a bad way to do something :)

Author: Are their people in our audience who will see the examples presented, and go "okay, what about Joe's example? Is that safe?" If that's a thing we can expect our readers to think, it might be worth mentioning.

Reviewer 3: I think the concatenation is actually causing the confusion here - it's not an important part of the snippet. Maybe something like this would be clearer...

Bad:

```
const script = 'alert(' + response.farewell + ')';
eval(script);
```

Good:

```
alert(response.farewell)
```

Reviewer 2: OK. I forgot to look at the context when I asked the question about `eval()`. It makes perfect sense as the antipattern. @oliverdunk, I think your proposal is right, but we need to use modern programming idioms.
